---
title: Gonz, and moving away from Tumblr
description: First post
created_at: 2018-08-11T17:51:32.902303Z
---
After using Tumblr as my blogging platform of choice for the last 10 years I have decided
to move to something else. The move is mostly triggered because of philosophical reasons.
I think the internet is getting increasingly walled off into corporate silos and I don't like it.
Tumblr is not a particularly bad, or big player in terms of this issue but it's definitely part of the problem.

This time I decided to go back to self-hosting despite the amount of maintenance work that means.
I like the idea of owning all my content and having full control.
While I'm at it I can consolidate my personal site and blog. Maybe later I will go even further by hosting my git repos myself. We'll see about that though.

To get my new blog up and running I looked at some static site generators. But since
I'm a programmer with a little bit of time on my hands I, of course, decided to
write my own. It pains me a bit to contribute to the endless pile of mediocre static site generators out there.

Anyway my very own mediocre static site generator is called [gonz](https://github.com/vorce/gonz) and is written in [Elixir](https://elixir-lang.org/) (surprise!). If you want to see the code for this site it's also up on github: [forvillelser](https://github.com/vorce/forvillelser).

Gonz is fairly basic in functionality. You write pages and posts in Markdown. You can write "themes" that decides how the generated HTML will look like. Every time you change something in a post or page, or add a new page/post you will need to rebuild the whole site. Gonz also support marking pages as navigation items, which you then can
handle accordingly in the theme. One thing I've added to my own theme is [highlight.js](https://highlightjs.org/) integration which I'm particularly happy about, since I'm planning on writing some more technical posts with code in them.

Here's an example of how you can create a page with Gonz as a elixir library:

```elixir
Gonz.Post.create("Example", nav_item?: true, content: """
  # My title

  Other markdown **stuff** here...
""")
```

Although you'd probably use the mix task: `mix gonz.post Example`

I'll have to come up with some plan on how to add my Tumblr posts here. I've exported the tumblr blog and got a 309MB size zip file 😅
